.\" Copyright (C) 2003 Raymond Ingles.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option) any
.\" later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation,
.\" Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.  */

.\" $Id: ostiary.cfg.5,v 0.10.00 2004/01/25 20:12:11 worsel Exp $
.\" .Dd January 25, 2004
.PU
.TH ostiary.cfg 5
.SH NAME
ostiary.cfg - Ostiary daemon configuration file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/ostiary.cfg
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ostiaryd
reads configuration data from
.I /etc/ostiary.cfg
(or the file specified with
.B "\-c"
on the command line). The file contains keywords and keyword-argument
pairs, one per line. A line consists of at least a keyword, optionally
followed by
"="
and one or more arguments. Lines starting with
"#"
and empty lines are interpreted as comments.

The possible keywords and their meanings are as follows:
.SS Mandatory Fields
.TP
.B
KILL="\fIpassphrase\fP"

Specifies the "kill" passphrase. If
.B ostiaryd
receives a hash with the kill passphrase, it immediately exits.
.TP
.B
ACTION="\fIsecret\fP","\fIcommand\fP"[,\fIuid\fP[,\fIgid\fP]]

At least one
.B ACTION
must be specified. This associates a particular
.I secret
passphrase with a particular
.IR command .
The command should include a full path (e.g. "/usr/bin/sshd"). The
.I uid
and
.I gid
fields, if present, force the command to be run as the specified
uid and gid, overiding the defaults. See
.B DEFAULT_UID
and
.BR DEFAULT_GID .

The
.I gid
field is optional, but if gid is specified, uid must be specified also.

The
.I secret
field may contain any characters except carriage-return and linefeed.
Quote characters may be included by escaping with a backslash.

.SS Recommended Fields
.TP
.BI PORT= number

This specifies the port that
.B ostiaryd
should listen on. If a port number is not specified on the command
line, it must be defined in
.BR ostiary.cfg .
.SS Optional Fields
.TP
.BI MIN_LOGLEVEL= level

See
.BR syslog (3)
for possible values. The default level is
.IR LOG_NOTICE .
Note that
.I LOG_CRIT
is the maximum value used by
.BR ostiaryd .
If this field is set to a higher value, no messages will be logged
by
.BR ostiaryd .
.TP
.BI DELAY= delay

Specifies the
.I delay
in seconds that
.B ostiaryd
will pause between accepting client connections. This value cannot
be less than 1. The default is 5 seconds.
.TP
.BI COMM_TIMEOUT= timeout

Specifies how long, in seconds,
.B ostiaryd
will wait to receive or transmit data before giving up. The default is
5 seconds.
.TP
.BI DEFAULT_UID= uid

Specifies the numeric userid that programs should be run as, unless
a value is specified in the
.B ACTION
definition. If this field is not present, programs will be run with
the uid of
.IR nobody .
.TP
.BI DEFAULT_GID= gid

Specifies the numeric groupid that programs should be run as, unless
a value is specified in the
.B ACTION
definition. If this field is not present, programs will be run with
the gid of user
.IR nobody .
.TP
.BI LOCAL_IP= address

If this field is present,
.B ostiaryd
will only accept connections to the
.I address
specified. If this field is not specified, connections will be accepted
on all available interfaces. This can be useful to restict Ostiary access
to, e.g., only clients on internal LAN.
.TP
.BI MAX_BAD_CONNS= number

Sets the maximum number of times a given IP address may cause any
kind of error, from an incomplete connection to failing to provide
a valid hash. Once a client has reached this limit, all further
communication from that IP address is ignored.
.TP
.BI MAX_SINGLE_ERRS= number

Sets the maximum number of times any single IP address may cause any
kind of error. Once any incoming IP has reached this limit,
.B ostiaryd
will exit. By default there is no limit, because once a client is
locked out there is very little they can do to cause damage.
.TP
.BI MAX_TOTAL_ERRS= number

Sets the maximum number of errors that all IP addresses may cause.
Once this many errors have ocurred, regardless of source,
.B ostiaryd
will exit. By default there is no limit, since even legitimate users
will cause errors from time to time. Setting this field virtually
guarantees that
.B ostiaryd
will exit at some point.
.TP
.B EXIT_ON_IPCACHE_FULL

If present,
.B ostiaryd
will exit when the maximum number of "locked" clients is reached. As
shipped, the maximum is 128, but this can be changed during compilation.
.TP
.B IGNORE_URANDOM

If present,
.B ostiaryd
will use
.BR random (3)
to generate salt hashes instead of reading from
.IR /dev/urandom .
This can be useful if entropy is scarce and should be reserved for
other applications, e.g. an SSL server.
.TP
.B SKIP_DETACH

If present,
.B ostiaryd
will not detach from the terminal it was started from.
This can be useful if 
.B ostiaryd
is being run from a service manager such as
.B (x)inetd,
.B daemontools
or
.B cygrunsrv.
.TP
.B
LOCKOUT_ACTION="\fIsecret\fP","\fIcommand\fP"[,\fIuid\fP[,\fIgid\fP]]

If
.B LOCKOUT_ACTION
is present, then the script
.IR command
will be run whenever an IP address is locked out. It will receive
as an argument the IP address that has been locked out, in dotted-quad
form. The
.I uid
and
.I gid
fields, if present, force the command to be run as the specified
uid and gid, overiding the defaults. See
.B DEFAULT_UID
and
.BR DEFAULT_GID .
The
.I secret
field must be present, but its contents are ignored and may be empty.

This can be used to, for example, update firewall rules to help
ensure malicious IP addresses are permanently denied from using
Ostiary, even if
.B ostiaryd
is restarted.

.SH FILES
.I /etc/ostiary.cfg

Contains configuration data for
.BR ostiaryd .
This file should be readable only by the userid that
.B ostiaryd
runs as, since it contains password data.
.SH AUTHORS
Ostiary was written by Raymond Ingles.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ostclient (1),
.BR ostiaryd (8)
