.\" Copyright (C) 2003 Raymond Ingles.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option) any
.\" later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation,
.\" Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.  */

.\" $Id: ostiaryd.2.0,v 0.10.00 2004/01/25 20:12:11 worsel Exp $
.\" .Dd January 25, 2004
.PU
.TH ostiaryd 8
.SH NAME
ostiaryd - Ostiary daemon (remote script execution program)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ostiaryd
[
.RB "\-c"
.I file
] [
.RB "\-d"
.I delay
] [
.RB "\-i"
.I ip_addr
] [
.RB "\-p"
.I port
] [
.RB "\-s"
.I seed
] [
.RB "\-r "
] [
.RB "\-v "
] [
.RB "\-D "
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ostiaryd
(Ostiary daemon) is a program for executing commands on a machine
in response to commands from a remote client. It is intended as a
limited but highly secure alternative to ssh and lsh.

.B ostiaryd
listens for connections at the specified
.I address 
and
.IR port .
When a connection is made,
.B ostiaryd
sends a 'salt hash' to the client, and receives an HMAC hash in
return, which is based on the salt and a shared secret passphrase.
.B ostiaryd
compares this reply with the hashes of the commands it has been
configured with. If a match is found, the corresponding command
is executed.

Generally
.B ostiaryd
reads its configuration information from
.BR ostiary.cfg (5),
but these can be overridden with command-line options as detailed below.

If
.B ostiaryd
receives a SIGHUP signal, it will close any existing connections, clear
out the kill password and list of commands, and reread its configuration
file. It is worth noting that
.B ostiaryd
does not do a complete reinitialization, but rather updates only the
the values specified in the
.BR ostiary.cfg (5)
file. The RNG is not reseeded, and the 'bad IP address cache' is not
cleared. The command-line options
.B ostiaryd
was started with (see below) are not reread; the values in the
.BR ostiary.cfg (5)
file, if any, will take precedence.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "\-c" " file"

If this option is present,
.B ostiaryd
will read its configuration information from
.I file
instead of the default configuration file.
.TP
.BI "\-d" " delay"

Specifies the
.IR delay ,
in seconds, that
.B ostiaryd
will pause between accepting connections from clients.
.TP
.BI "\-i" " ip_addr"

Specifies the
.I ip_addr 
that
.B ostiaryd
will listen on, ignoring all other network interfaces and any
value listed in the configuration file.
.TP
.BI "\-p" " port"

Specifies the
.I port
that
.B ostiaryd
will listen on, ignoring any port defined in the configuration file.
.TP
.BI "\-s" " seed"

Provides a
.I seed
for
.BR random (3).
It is strongly advised that this not be a static number,
but rather be obtained from a secure and unpredictable source. (At the very
least, use something like the bash shell's $RANDOM variable.)
If this option is not present, the current time from
.BR time (2)
will be used as the seed. Generally used in conjunction with
.BR "\-r" .

.TP
.B "\-r"
.br
Ignore
.IR /dev/urandom ,
instead using
.BR random (3)
to generate random values for use in the salt. This can be used
to conserve entropy for use in other applications.

.TP
.B "\-v"
.br
Sets the log level to
.IR LOG_INFO ,
providing more verbose output to the system log than normal.

.TP
.B "\-D"
.br
Tells
.B ostiaryd
not to detach from its controlling terminal; useful when running from service
managers like
.BR inetd (8)
and
.BR daemontools (8).

.SH AUTHORS
.B ostiaryd
was developed by Raymond Ingles.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ostclient (1),
.BR ostiary.cfg (5)

H. Krawczyk, M. Bellare, R. Canetti,
.I HMAC: Keyed-Hashing for Message Authentication
.br
February 1997,
.B RFC 2104
