.\" Copyright (C) 2003 Raymond Ingles.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option) any
.\" later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation,
.\" Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.  */

.\" $Id: ostiaryd.2.0,v 0.10.00 2004/01/25 20:12:11 worsel Exp $
.\" .Dd January 25, 2004
.PU
.TH ostclient 1
.SH NAME
ostclient \- Ostiary client (remote script execution program)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ostclient " \-a "
{
.I "address"
|
.I "address:port"
} [
.RB "\-p "
.I "port"
] [
.B "\-f "
.I fd
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ostclient 
(Ostiary client) is a program for executing commands on a remote
machine. It is intended as a limited but highly secure alternative
to ssh and lsh.

The user first provides a passphrase that corresponds to a particular
command to be run on the remote host. Then
.B ostclient
connects to the specified
.I address 
at the the specified
.I port
and receives a 'salt hash' from the server. Finally,
.B ostclient
hashes this salt with the passphrase provided by the user and
sends the result back to the server. The current version of the hash
uses HMAC-SHA256 (see
.B RFC 2104
). This is not compatible with older servers, which used either
HMAC-SHA1 or HMAC-MD5.
.br
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-a " address " | " address:port"
The address (either name or dotted-quad IP address) of the host,
optionally followed by the port to connect to on that server.
.TP
.BI \-p " port"
The port to connect to. This can be specified as part of the address,
or as a separate option here, but must be specified somewhere.
.TP
.BI \-f " fd"
Tells
.BR ostclient
to read the passphrase from file descriptor number
.I fd
instead of interactively. This can be helpful when using ostclient in
scripts. (See EXAMPLES below.)
.SH EXAMPLES
Normally
.B ostclient
reads the passphrase interactively from the terminal, but this does not
work well in scripts. To allow script-driven use of
.BR ostclient ,
the
.B \-f
option may be used. This will tell
.B ostclient
to read the password from a file descriptor instead of interactively.
Typically file descriptor 0 (stdin) will be used, but others are
possible. As a convenience,
.B ostclient
will ignore any trailing whitespace, including CR characters.
.PP
For example, to use the secret "passphrase", the following command
might be issued:
.PP
echo "passphrase" | ostclient -a 192.168.0.37 -p 5018 -f 0
.PP
Also, the following form may be used:
.PP
echo "passphrase" > tmpfile
.br
ostclient -a localhost:5018 -f 0 < tmpfile
.SH AUTHORS
.BR ostclient
was developed by Raymond Ingles.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ostiary.cfg (5),
.BR ostiaryd (8)

H. Krawczyk, M. Bellare, R. Canetti,
.I HMAC: Keyed-Hashing for Message Authentication
.br
February 1997,
.B RFC 2104

